>> Ifill: UKRAINE COULD BE ON
THE VERGE OF A SPLIT.
LAWMAKERS IN CRIMEA CALLED FOR A
VOTE TO JOIN RUSSIA, BUT
PRESIDENT OBAMA DECLARED THE
MOVE ILLEGAL AND INVOKED
SANCTIONS AGAINST THOSE DRIVING
THE CRISIS.
WE TALK WITH THE U.S. AMBASSADOR
TO THE U.N., SAMANTHA POWER.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
JUDY WOODRUFF IS OFF TONIGHT.
ALSO AHEAD.
PROMISING NEW APPROACHES IN THE
FIGHT AGAINST AIDS.
FROM GENE THERAPY TO NEWS OF A
SECOND BABY BORN WITH H.I.V NOW
FREE OF THE DISEASE.
PLUS, WE'RE DROWNING IN ECONOMIC
DATA-- G.D.P, HOUSING STARTS,
JOBS NUMBERS-- WHAT DO THEY
REALLY TELL US ABOUT THE STATE
OF THE ECONOMY?
>>  JERPTHE QUESTION WE SHOULD E
ASKING IS, IS OUR COMPLICATED
REALITY WELL SERVED BY THESE
SIMPLE STATISTICAL WONDERS.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE BREAKUP OF UKRAINE
MOVED A STEP CLOSER TO REALITY
TODAY.
THE PARLIAMENT IN CRIMEA
SCHEDULED A VOTE ON WHETHER IT
WILL STAY PART OF UKRAINE OR
RETURN TO RUSSIA.
THAT ACTION DREW A SWIFT
RESPONSE AS THE U.S. AND ITS
EUROPEAN PARTNERS ANNOUNCED
SANCTIONS AGAINST RUSSIA.
HARI SREENIVASAN BEGINS OUR
COVERAGE.
>> Sreenivasan: AT MIDDAY, THE
PRESIDENT DISCUSSED THE VISA
RESTRICTIONS AND FINANCIAL
SANCTIONS ANNOUNCED EARLY THIS
MORNING ON RUSSIANS BEHIND THE
UKRAINE INVASION.
>> THIS MORNING I SIGNED AN
EXECUTIVE ORDER THAT AUTHORIZES
SANCTIONS ON INDIVIDUALS AND
ENTITIES RESPONSIBLE FOR
VIOLATING THE SOVEREIGNTY AND
TERRITORIAL INTEGRITY OF UKRAINE
FOR STEALING THE ASSETS OF THE
UKRAINIAN PEOPLE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PRESIDENT
ALSO VOICED STRONG OPPOSITION TO
THE CRIMEAN PARLIAMENT'S VOTE TO
LEAVE UKRAINE.
IT ANNOUNCED A MARCH 16th
REFERENDUM TO LET ITS CITIZENS
DECIDE ON WHETHER TO JOIN RUSSIA
OR REMAIN PART OF UKRAINE.
>> THE PROPOSED REFERENDUM ON
THE FUTURE OF CRIMEA WOULD
VIOLATE THE UKRAINIAN
CONSTITUTION AND VIOLATETERNATI.
ANY DISCUSSION ABOUT THE FUTURE
OF UKRAINE MUST INCLUDE THE
LEGITIMATE GOVERNMENT OF
UKRAINE.
IN 2014, WE ARE WELL BEYOND THE
DAYS WHEN BORDERS CAN BE REDRAWN
OVER THE HEADS OF DEMOCRATIC
LEADERS.
>> Sreenivasan: THAT SENTIMENT
WAS ECHOED IN BRUSSELS, AS
EUROPEAN LEADERS MET TO IMPOSE
THE E.U.'S OWN SET OF VISA BANS,
AND A SUSPENSION OF TRADE TALKS.
FRENCH PRESIDENT FRANCOIS
HOLLANDE.
>> ( translated ): IF THERE IS
AN ATTEMPT AT SPLITTING,
DIVIDING OR EVEN WORSE OF
CAPTURING CRIMEA, IT WOULD NOT
BE IN LINE WITH INTERNATIONAL
LAW.
UKRAINE IS UKRAINE, IT IS ALL OF
UKRAINE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PRO-MOSCOW
PARLIAMENT SET A MARCH 16th DATE
FOR THE VOTE JUST TEN DAYS OFF.
BUT THE GOVERNMENT IN KIEV
PUSHED BACK, BLOCKING THE
REFERENDUM.
ACTING UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT,
OLEKSANDER TURCHINOV:
>> ( translated ): IT IS NOT A
REFERENDUM, IT IS A FARCE, A
FAKE AND A CRIME AGAINST THE
STATE WHICH IS ORGANIZED BY THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION'S MILITARY.
>> Sreenivasan: MEANWHILE, THE
INTERNATIONAL POLICE AGENCY
INTERPOL SAID IT WAS REVIEWING A
REQUEST BY UKRAINIAN AUTHORITIES
TO ARREST OUSTED PRESIDENT
VIKTOR YANUKOVICH.
THE RED NOTICE CALLED FOR THE
FORMER LEADER TO BE HELD ON
CHARGES INCLUDING ABUSE OF POWER
AND MURDER.
BACK IN WASHINGTON, THE HOUSE
FOREIGN AFFAIRS COMMITTEE HELD
THE FIRST CONGRESSIONAL HEARING
DEVOTED SOLELY TO UKRAINE, WITH
TALK SWIRLING IN SOME QUARTER OF
CAPITOL HILL OF A NEW COLD WAR.
REPUBLICAN MICHAEL McCAUL OF
TEXAS WARNED THE STATE
DEPARTMENT'S ERIC RUBIN THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION'S SANCTIONS MAY
NOT BE ENOUGH TO STOP WHAT HE
CALLED A RUSSIAN ACT OF WAR.
>> DOES THIS ADMINTRATISION
BELIEVE THAT THE RUSSIAN
INVASION OF UKRAINE IS AN ACT OF
WAR?
>> WELL CONGRESSMAN, WE'VE SAID
VERY CLEARLY THAT WE KNOW WHAT
WE HAVE SEEN, WHICH IS MILITARY
AGGRESSION INTERVENTION IN THE
AFFAIRS OF A SOVEREIGN COUNTRY,
A VIOLATION OF LEGAL
COMMITMENTS, A VIOLATION OF
INTERNATIONAL LAW, THAT IS WHAT
WE SEE THAT IS WHAT WE'RE
CALLING IT.
>> Sreenivasan: AND AS THE U.S.
CONTINUES TO DISCUSS FINANCIAL
SUPPORT FOR UKRAINE, THE HOUSE
VOTED TODAY TO PROVIDE LOAN
GUARANTEES TO THE NEW UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT.
ELSEWHERE ON CAPITOL HILL,
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE CHUCK HAGEL
SPOKE OF MILITARY MOVES IN
STATES CLOSEST TO RUSSIA.
>> THESE INCLUDE STEPPING UP OUR
JOINT TRAINING THROUGH OUR
AVIATION DETACHMENT IN POLAND
AND I WAS ADVISED THIS MORNING
THAT CONTINUES TO MOVE FORWARD.
>> Sreenivasan: REPORTS FROM
POLAND SAID THE U.S. MILITARY IS
SENDING 12 F-16 FIGHTER JETS
THERE FOR A TRAINING EXERCISE IN
LIGHT OF THE CRISIS IN UKRAINE.
AND THE U.S.S TRUXTON-- A NAVY
WARSHIP-- IS SCHEDULED TO PASS
THROUGH THE BOSPHOROUS TOMORROW,
EN ROUTE TO THE BLACK SEA.
THAT MOVE IS PART OF A
PREVIOUSLY-SCHEDULED PORT CALL
IN ROMANIA.
ON THE DIPLOMATIC FRONT,
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
WAS IN ROME TODAY, AND MET WITH
HIS RUSSIAN COUNTERPART, SERGEI
LAVROV.
NO TANGIBLE PROGRESS WAS MADE
TOWARD A RESOLUTION.
KERRY SAID FURTHER PENALTIES
AGAINST RUSSIA ARE AN OPTION,
BUT.
>> OUR PREFERENCE IS TO GET BACK
TO A NORMALITY AND GET BACK TO A
PLACE WHERE THE RIGHTS OF THE
PEOPLE OF UKRAINE WILL BE
RESPECTED AND THE TERRITORIAL
INTEGRITY AND SOVEREIGNTY OF THE
NATION WILL BE RESPECTED
>> Sreenivasan: P.B.S
FRONTLINE'S JAMES JONES HAS BEEN
THERE ON ASSIGNMENT, MOST
RECENTLY IN THE EASTERN CITY OF
KHARKIV-- HE OBTAINED CELL PHONE
FOOTAGE SHOT BY RUSSIAN
ACTIVISTS.
IT SHOWS SUPPORTERS OF MAIDAN
UPRISING BEING BEATEN BY PRO-
RUSSIAN, FELLOW UKRAINIANS AND
RUSSIAN CITIZENS WHO WERE BUSED
ONE MORE SIGN OF THE CHALLENGES
OF KEEPING THE COUNTRY TOGETHER.
>> Ifill: THE SENATE BLOCKED A
BIPARTISAN BILL ON MILITARY
SEXUAL ASSAULTS TODAY.
IT WOULD HAVE REMOVED COMMANDERS
FROM DECISIONS ABOUT PROSECUTING
SEXUAL ASSAULT CASES.
SUPPORTERS OF THE MEASURE,
SPONSORED BY NEW YORK DEMOCRAT
KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND, ARGUED FAR-
REACHING CHANGES ARE NEEDED TO
CURB THE NUMBER OF RAPES AND
SEXUAL ASSAULTS.
HAWAII SENATOR MAZIE HIRONO.
>> THIS BILL HAS NOTHING TO DO
WITH TAKING COMMANDERS AND
TELLING COMMANDERS THEY ARE
FIRED OR THAT THEY ARE MORALLY
BANKRUPT.
THEY SHOULD CONTINUE TO BE HELD
ACCOUNTABLE FOR CREATING A
COMMAND CLIMATE WHERE SEXUAL
ASSAULTS DO NOT OCCUR.
OR CERTAINLY NOT OCCUR BY THE
TENS OF THOUSANDS.
>> Ifill: THE LEGISLATION WAS
STRONGLY OPPOSED BY THE TOP
BRASS AT THE PENTAGON.
SENATORS LIKE SOUTH CAROLINA'S
LINDSEY GRAHAM AGREED WITH THE
MILITARY LEADERS THAT THEY
SHOULD HAVE MORE, NOT LESS,
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE CONDUCT
OF THEIR TROOPS.
>> THE PERSON WE CHOOSE AS A
NATION TO RUN THE FINEST
MILITARY IN THE WORLD-- THE
COMMANDER-- HAS THE ABSOLUTE
AUTHORITY TO MAINTAIN THAT UNIT
FOR READINESS AND IF YOU DON'T
GIVE THAT COMMANDER THE TOOLS
AND HOLD THEM ACCOUNTABLE THAT
UNIT WILL FALL APART RIGHT IN
FRONT OF HER EYES BECAUSE SOME
LAWYER SOMEWHERE IS NO
SUBSTITUTE FOR THE COMMANDER WHO
IS THERE EVERY DAY.
>> Ifill: A MAJORITY OF SENATORS
SUPPORTED THE MEASURE, BUT IT
FELL FIVE VOTES SHORT OF THE 60
NEEDED TO ADVANCE.
ANOTHER BILL THAT WOULD IMPOSE
AUTOMATIC REVIEWS OF A
COMMANDER'S DECISION NOT TO
PROSECUTE, PASS.
A FINAL VOTE IS SLATED FOR
MONDAY.
MEANWHILE AT FORT BRAGG IN NORTH
CAROLINA, THE MOST SENIOR
MILITARY MEMBER EVER TO FACE
TRIAL FOR SEXUAL ASSAULT,
PLEADED GUILTY ON THREE COUNTS
TODAY.
ARMY BRIGADIER GENERAL JEFFREY
SINCLAIR STILL FACES FIVE
ADDITIONAL, MORE SERIOUS
CHARGES, INCLUDING SEXUAL
ASSAULT.
A JURY OF FIVE GENERALS
PRESIDING OVER THE COURT MARTIAL
WILL DECIDE HIS FATE.
IF CONVICTED, HE COULD FACE LIFE
IN PRISON.
A NATO AIRSTRIKE KILLED FIVE
AFGHAN SOLDIERS TODAY.
COALITION OFFICIALS, WHO SAID
THEIR DEATHS WERE ACCIDENTAL,
OFFERED EIR THCONDOLENCES.
THE INCIDENT HAPPENED EARLY THIS
MORNING IN EASTERN LOGAR
PROVINCE.
AFGHAN PRESIDENT HAMID KARZAI
SAID A PROBE IS UNDERWAY TO
DETERMINE WHY THE SOLDIERS WERE
TARGETED.
HE SPOKE DURING A VISIT TO SRI
LANKA.
>> WE ARE INVESTIGATING THE
NATURE OF THIS ATTACK ON AFGHAN
TROOPS WHERE UNFORTUNATELY FIVE
OF OUR SOLDIERS LOST THEIR
LIVES.
THIS ATTACK NATO HAS ADMITTED TO
AND HAS SAID THAT THEY DID IT
MISTAKENLY, WE WILL INVESTIGATE
THE ISSUE AND THEN SPEAK ABOUT
IT.
>> Ifill: THE STRIKE COMES AS
THE U.S. AND AFGHANISTAN ARE
NEGOTIATING A BILATERAL SECURITY
AGREEMENT TO KEEP LIMITED U.S.
FORCES IN THE COUNTRY BEYOND
2014.
BOMBS RIPPED THROUGH FOUR CITIES
IN IRAQ TODAY, KILLING AT LEAST
42 PEOPLE.
MOST WERE EXPLOSIVE DEVICES IN
PARKED CARS.
THEY WENT OFF IN COMMERCIAL
AREAS, INCLUDING AN OUTDOOR
MARKET.
BOMBINGS HAVE BEEN ON THE RISE
ACROSS IRAQ SINCE LAST YEAR, AS
AL QAEDA AND SUNNI INSURGENTS
HAVE UPPED THEIR BATTLE TO
UNDERMINE THE SHI-ITE LED
GOVERNMENT.
MOAMMAR GADHAFI'S SON, SAADI,
ARRIVED IN LIBYA TODAY AFTER
BEING EXTRADITED FROM NIGER.
HE'D BEEN UNDER HOUSE ARREST IN
THE WEST AFRICAN NATION SINCE
HIS FATHER'S REGIME COLLAPSED IN
2011.
LIBYAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS SAID
SAADI IS NOW BEING HELD AT THIS
PRISON IN TRIPOLI, WHERE A GROUP
OF LIBYANS GATHERED TO CELEBRATE
TODAY.
LIBYA WANTS TO TRY THE 40-YEAR-
OLD FOR USING FORCE AGAINST
PROTESTERS OPPOSING HIS FATHER'S
RULE.
MORE THAN HALF OF AMERICAN
PUBLIC SCHOOLS NEED REPAIRS OR
MODERNIZATION.
THE PRICE TAG: NEARLY $200
BILLION.
THAT'S ACCORDING TO A NEW SURVEY
OUT TODAY FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF
EDUCATION'S NATIONAL CENTER FOR
EDUCATION STATISTICS.
MANY SCHOOL DISTRICTS, LABORING
UNDER SLASHED BUDGETS DURING THE
RECESSION HAVE BEEN FORCED TO
DELAY BUILDING IMPROVEMENTS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S MY BROTHER'S
KEEPER INITIATIVE TO HELP YOUNG
MEN OF COLOR GOT A MAJOR BOOST
TODAY WITH A BILLION DOLLAR
INVESTMENT.
IT COMES FROM THE OPPORTUNITY
FINANCE NETWORK, A NATIONAL
GROUP OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.
THE PLEDGE IS TO ORIGINATE A
BILLION DOLLARS A YEAR IN NEW
FINANCING TO BENEFIT YOUNG
PEOPLE OF COLOR ACROSS THE U.S.
THE OFFICE SUPPLY CHAIN STAPLES
IS CLOSING 225 OF ITS STORES IN
NORTH AMERICA BY THE END OF NEXT
YEAR.
THE CLOSINGS WILL AFFECT MORE
THAN 10% OF ITS 1,500 STORES IN
THE U.S.
STAPLES NOW MAKES ABOUT HALF OF
ITS OVERALL SALES ONLINE.
THE MOVE IS DESIGNED TO SAVE
$500 MILLION.
THERE WAS UPBEAT DATA TODAY
ABOUT THE STATE OF THE NATION'S
LABOR MARKET.
THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE FILING FOR
JOBLESS BENEFITS DROPPED TO ITS
LOWEST LEVEL IN THREE MONTHS.
STOCKS ON WALL STREET REACTED
MOSTLY FAVORABLY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 61 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,421.
THE NASDAQ FELL FIVE POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,352.
THE STANDARD AND POOR'S HAD ITS
THIRD ALL-TIME HIGH THIS WEEK,
RISING THREE POINTS TO CLOSE AT
1,877.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR,
U.N. AMBASSADOR SAMANTHA POWER
ON THE CRISIS IN UKRAINE,
PROMISING NEW APPROACHES IN THE
FIGHT AGAINST H.I.V/AI,DS
JUDGING THE VALUE OF ECONOMIC
INDICATORS, ONE WOMAN'S CANDID
GUIDE TO COPING WITH CANCER AND
SURPRISING FINDINGS--
ALZHEIMER'S IS THE THIRD LEADING
CAUSE OF DEATH IN THE U.S.
>> Ifill: THREATS, SANCTIONS AND
DIRE PREDICTIONS MOVED TO CENTER
STAGE TODAY AS THE CRISIS IN
UKRAINE SHOWED NO SIGN OF
ABATING.
FOR MORE ON WHAT THE U.S., THE
U.N. AND THEIR EUROPEAN PARTNERS
CAN DO TO PREVENT THE COUNTRY
FROM SPLITTING APART.
I'M JOINED BY SAMANTHA POWER,
THE U.S. AMBASSADOR TO THE
UNITED NATIONS.
AMBASSADOR POWER, THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US.
THE ADMINISTRATION HAS BEEN
TALKING ABOUT ECONOMIC ISOLATION
EN A
RESPONSE TO WHAT'S HAPPENING IN
CRIMEA.
COULD YOU GIVE US A SENSE OF
WHAT THAT REALLY MEANS?
>> WELL, RUSSIA HAS MADE CLEAR
IN RECENT YEARS HOW MUCH IT IS
INTERESTED IN ECONOMIC
INTEGRATION WITH THE WEST AND
ENHANCED COMMERCIAL TIES.
AS A RESULT OF ITS MILITARY
MANEUVERS AND ITS ILLEGAL
ACTIONS IN CRIMEA, UKRAINE, THAT
ENTIRE PROCESS, THE
POSSIBILITIES HAVE BEEN
SUSPENDED PENDING A DECISION BY
THEM TO BULL BACK FROM THE
BRINK -- PULL BACK FROM THE
BIRCHING.
BRINK.
OUR GOAL IS TO GET THEM TO PULL
BACK AND OUR LEVERAGE MADE CLEAR
WHAT MATTERS TO THEM.
>> Ifill: YOU TALKED ABOUT
PULLING BACK FROM UKRAINE AND
DEESCALATION.
IT'S A WORD YOU AND SECRETARY OF
STATE JOHN KERRY AND PRESIDENT
OBAMA HAVE ALL USED.
WHY DO YOU THINK YOU HAVE THE
LEVERAGE TO MAKE THEM DEESCALATE
AND TAKE SEVERAL TROOPS BACK TO
THEIR BARRACKS.
>> AGAIN, RUSSIA SAID IT WANTS
ENHANCED ECONOMIC TIES.
PUTIN PRIDE HIMSELF ON STEPS
HE'S TAKEN TO SHORE UP THE
RUSSIAN ECONOMY.
HE'S NOT DOING THAT WELL.
THE RUBLE DEPRECIATED
SUBSTANTIALLY IN RECENT MONTHS.
A LOT OF RUSSIA'S EXPORT MARKET
GOES WEST TO EUROPE AND UKRAINE
ARE VERY IMPORTANT MARKETS FOR
IT, BUT ALSO VISA BANS AND
ECONOMIC SANCTIONS WHERE U.S.
PERSONS ARE PROHIBITED FROM
DOING BUSINESS WITH CERTAIN
INDIVIDUALS IN RUSSIA, WE THINK
THIS CAN HAVE A DETERRENT
EFFECT.
BUT WE DON'T KNOW.
I MEAN, AT THIS POINT, WE ARE
PUTTING IN PLACE A SET OF
MEASURES IN THE HOPES THAT HE
PULLS BACK FROM THE BRINK, IN
THE HOPES THAT WE DON'T HAVE TO
GO ALL THE WAY TO FULL-ON
POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC ISOLATION
BECAUSE THE GOAL HERE, AGAIN, IS
TO PRESERVE THE TERRITORIAL
INTEGRITY OF UKRAINE.
BUT WE THINK THAT WE HAVE A
SERIES OF LEVERAGE, PARTICULARLY
WHEN WE ENFORCED BY OUR EUROPEAN
PARTNERS THAT WILL VERY MUCH GET
HIS ATTENTION.
>> Ifill: IF THERE IS A VOTE
FOR CRIMEA TO GO BACK TO RUSSIA,
IF THAT REFERENDUM WERE TO COME
TO PASS, WHAT WOULD BE THE
PENALTY IN INTERNATIONAL LAW?
>> WELL, FIRST, YOU WOULD SEE
THE BROAD, I THINK, CONDEMNATION
AND ESTABLISHMENT TO HAVE THE
ILLEGALITY AND ILL LEGITIMACY OF
SUCH A VOTE BY THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY.
I'VE JUST COME FROM THE SECURITY
COUNCIL AND WITH THE DEPOSITION
OF RUSSIA WHERE ALL COUNCIL
MEMBERS MADE CLEAR THIS IS
INAPPROPRIATE AND YOU HAVE TO
OPERATE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
UKRAINIAN CONSTITUTION WHICH
WOULD REQUIRE ANY REFERENDUM TO
AFFECT THE TERRITORIAL UKRAINE
TO CARRY OUT ACROSS UKRAINE AND
NOT JUST ONE SUB-REGION.
SO I THINK YOU WOULD SEE
CONDEMNATION AND THE KIND OF
COSTS PRESIDENT OBAMA LAID OUT
TODAY WOULD BE THE KINDS OTHER
COUNTRIES WOULD LIKE TO BRING TO
BEAR.
OUR HOPE SO TO LAY DOWN
SANCTIONS AS PRESIDENT OBAMA DID
TODAY IN THE HOPES OF GETTING
PUTIN TO PULL BACK.
>> Ifill: ANOTHER OFF RAMP YOU
SUGGESTED IS SENDING IN
INTERNATIONAL MONITORS.
IF YOU HAD AN ENVOY IN CRIMEA
YESTERDAY, ROBERT, WHO WAS
FORCED TO LEAVE, WHY DO YOU
THINK THESE MONITORS WOULD BE
ALLOWED IN OR ALLOWED TO STAY?
>> WELL, THIS AGAIN IS AN
OFF-RAMP.
BOTH THE UN AND EEOC MADE CLEAR
THEY'RE HAPPY TO GO AND ADDRESS
THE ALLEGATIONS RUSSIA MADE
ABOUT THE TREATMENT OF ETHNIC
RUSSIANS, AGAIN, ALLEGATIONS WE
BELIEVE ON BASIS THAT WE HAVE
SEEN NO EVIDENCE AND IT'S
CLEAR, I THINK, ON THE BASIS OF
RUSSIAN BEHAVIOR AND THE
BEHAVIOR OF RUSSIAN-SPEAKING
THUGS IN CRIMEA THAT RUSSIA
DOESN'T WANT MONITORS IN, THAT
THEY DON'T WANT TO ACTUALLY
EXPOSE THE BASELESSNESS OF THEIR
ALLEGATIONS.
SO, OF COURSE, THIS IS VERY
DISTURBING, THE TREATMENT OF A
U.N. ENJOY SENT BY THE ENTIRE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY, SENT BY
THE SECRETARY GENERAL ON BEHALF
OF ALL THE MEMBER STATES OF THE
U.N. TO BE TREATED LIKE THAT IS
JUST DEPLORABLE.
AND THE SEA MONITOR ALSO FACED
SIMILAR OBSTRUCTIONS AS IN
CRIMEA.
>> Ifill: SO YOU DON'T HAVE
HOPES INTERNATIONAL MONITORS IS
A REAL OFFRAMP?
>> WELL, IT IS IN THE SENSE IT
IS AVAILABLE.
RIGHT NOW THERE ARE TWO
PATHWAYS.
RUSSIA IS LOOKING AT THE PATH OF
POLITICAL AND ECONOMICAL
ISOLATION WE SPOKE ABOUT
INCLUDING A SERIES OF ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS WHERE INDIVIDUALS WILL
BE NAMED AND PENALIZED SEVERELY.
THAT'S ONE PATHWAY.
THE OTHER PATHWAY IS TO ALLOW
MONITORS IN, TO ALLOW MEDIATION.
FORMER MINISTER SAID HE IS GOING
TO TAKE SOME OF THESE BACK TO
PUTIN AND WE BELIEVE IN THE COST
ANALYSIS THAT THE COST OF GOING
DOWN THE PATH PUTIN IS GOING,
DENYING MONITORS AND DENYING
MEDIATION AND REFUSING
AUTHORITIES IS MORE COSTLY THAN
ALLOWING THE SPIRIT OF
COMPROMISE TO PREVAIL.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT
WHAT YOU HAD TO SAY THIS WEEK TO
THE SECURITY COUNCIL.
YOU SAID THERE WERE TROOP AND
SHIFT MOVEMENTS THAT PUT
RUSSIANS IN CRIMEA, BLOCKED CELL
PHONE SERVICE, THAT THERE WERE
RUSSIAN JETS IN UKRAINIAN
AIRSPACE, THESE ARE ALL THE
THINGS YOU LISTED AS PROOF
RUSSIA OVERSTEPPED ITS BOUND.
HAS ANYTHING CHANGED BETWEEN THE
TIME YOU SAID THAT AND TODAY
WHICH LEADS YOU TO BELIEVE THERE
IS TOM SORT OF MOVEMENT OR
COMPROMISE?
>> OTHER THAN THE HIGH-LEVEL
DIPLOMATIC ENGAGEMENT BETWEEN
SECRETARY KERRY AND FOREIGN
MINISTER LAVROV AND THERE ARE
DISCUSSIONS OF AN INTERNATIONAL
CONTACT GROUP, NO, THE SITUATION
IN CRIMEA, IF ANYTHING, HAS
DETERIORATED IN THE SENSE THAT
YOU NOW SEE THE SO-CALLED DEPUTY
PRIME MINISTER OF CRIMEA
REFERRING TO UKRAINIAN FORCES AS
"OCCUPYING TROOPS" WHICH, OF
CO IS AN
ILLEGITIMATE CLAIM AND YOU SEE
THE CRIMEA DEPARTMENT ACTING AS
IT DID TODAY.
SO WE'RE VERY WORRIED AND THIS
IS A MOMENT IN HISTORY THAT
COULD TURN SOUTH IN A HURRY AND
COULD ESCALATE IN A HUERY, WHICH
IS WHY WE'RE TRYING TO GIVE THE
RUSSIANS THE OFFRAMP AND
ENCOURAGE THEM AND HAVE THE
ENTIRE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY
SPEAK IN ONE VOICE TO GET THEM
TO TAKE THE PATH OF
DEESCALATION.
>> Ifill: HENRY KISSEN JEER
FORMER SECRETARY OF STATE WAS
QUOTED IN AN OP ED IN "THE
WASHINGTON POST" IS THE TEST IS
HOW IT ENDS.
>> RUSSIA NEEDS TO MAKE CLEAR TO
THE WORLD AND TO THE PEOPLE OF
YOU KOREAN THAT IT IS PREPARED
TO WORK WITH THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY, WITH MONITORS WHO ARE
INDEPENDENT AND CREDIBLE IN
ORDER TO PURSUE ITS LEGITIMATE
INTERESTS BOTH IN CRIMEA AND
UKRAINE PROPER.
THAT IS WHAT NEEDS TO HAPPEN,
AND IF THAT DOESN'T HAPPEN,
UNFORTUNATELY, WE'LL NEED TO
CONTINUE TO MOVE DOWN THE PATH
OF POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC
ISOLATION.
>> Ifill: UNITED STATES
AMBASSADOR TO THATIO THE UNITEDS
SAMANTHA POWER THANKS VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: FOR ALL OF THE
PROGRESS MADE IN THE FIGHT
AGAINST AIDS, IT STILL TAKES A
TERRIBLE TOLL.
MORE THAN 35 MILLION PEOPLE ARE
INFECTED WITH H.I.V AROUND THE
WORLD, MORE THAN TWO MILLION
PEOPLE ARE NEWLY INFECTED EACH
YEAR AND WELL OVER A MILLION DIE
FROM IT ANNUALLY.
BUT RESEARCH RELEASED AT AN AIDS
CONFERENCE THIS WEEK IS RAISING
HOPE ABOUT NEW INROADS INTO
TREATING IT AND PREVENTING
INFECTIONS.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> Brown: THREE REPORTS
ATTRACTED ATTENTION, ONE
INVOLVED INJECTIONS OF DRUGS
INTO MONKEYS THAT HELPED STOP
INFECTIONS, THE SECOND REVEALED
PROMISING NEWS OF A BABY BORN
WITH THE VIRUS AND GIVEN
AGGRESSIVE TREATMENT, THE THIRD
CONCERNED SO-CALLED GENE
EDITING, ALTERING CELLS TO
RESIST HIV.
N.I.H.'S INSTITUTE OF ALLERGY
AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES HAS BEEN
FUNDING MUCH OF THIS WORK.
DR. ANTHONY FAUCI IS ITS
LONGTIME DIRECTOR AND JOINS ME
NOW.
WELCOME BACK.
LET'S WALK THROUGH SOME OF THIS.
FIRST THE INJECTIONS OF
LONG-LASTING DRUGS INTO MONKEYS.
EXPLAIN THE WORK AND WHY IT'S SO
IMPORTANT.
>> WELL, THE REASON THE WORK IS
IMPORTANT IS THAT WE KNOW, IN
HUMAN STUDIES, SEVERAL HUMAN
STUDIES, THAT IF YOU GIVE A DRUG
TO AN UNINFECTED PERSON WHO'S
PRACTICINGRIESING BEHAVIOR, WE
CALL IT PREEXPOSURE PROPHYLAXIS,
THAT IF THEY TAKE THE DRUG EVERY
DAY, IT ABSOLUTELY WORKS AND
PREVENTS INFECTION IN OVER 90%
OF THE PEOPLE.
THE PROBLEM WITH THE APPROACH IS
THAT PEOPLE DON'T LIKE TO TAKE
MEDICINE EVERY DAY OR BEFORE OR
AFTER A SEXUAL ENCOUNTER.
SO A MODALITY OF PREVENTION THAT
YOU KNOW WORKS 90-PLUS PERCENT
DOESN'T WORK THAT WELL PURELY
BECAUSE PEOPLE DON'T ADD HERE.
THE EXPERIMENTS THAT HAVE BEEN
YOURTED RECENTLY KNOW SHOW
TAKE A LONG-ACTING DRUG, A DRUG
THAT'S USED IN A DIFFERENT FORM
TO TREAT HIV INFECTION, IN THE
MONKEY MODEL, AND GIVE AN
INJECTION EVERY SO OFTEN -- LIKE
EVERY COUPLE OF MONTHS -- YOU
CAN ACTUALLY PREVENT CHALLENGING
THAT MONKEY WITH INFECTION WITH
THE MONKEY VERSION OF HIV BY
EXPOSING THE RECTUM VAGINALLY.
IT WORKS IN A HIGHLY EFFECTIVE
WAY.
THE EXTRAPOLATION IS IF YOU MOVE
THAT INTO HUMAN STUDIES, WE CAN
TAKE PREVENTION IN A WAY THAT
PEOPLE ADHERE TO IT BECAUSE THEY
DON'T HAVE TO COME FOR MAYBE
THREE OR SO INJECTIONS A YEAR
AND THEN BE PROTECTED THROUGHOUT
THE YEAR.
SO THIS ADDRESSES THE REAL
STUMBLING BLOCK OF ADHERENCE IN
PEOPLE WITH A DRUG THAT YOU KNOW
WORKS.
IT'S REALLY QUITE AN IMPORTANT
STUDY.
>> Brown: I KNOW WE'VE TALKED
ABOUT THIS SEVERAL TIMES OVER
THE YEARS ABOUT THIS PROBLEM OF
PEOPLE TAKING THE DRUGS
REGULARLY ENOUGH.
THE KEY QUESTION, MOVING FROM
MONKEYS TO HUMANS, WHERE ARE WE
ON THAT CONTINUUM?
>> WELL, THEY'RE GOING TO GO
RIGHT INTO STUDIES NOW, IN PHASE
ONE STUDIES IN HUMANS TO
DETERMINE IF IT WORKS, AND THE
DATA IN THE MONKEY, JEFF,
STRONGLY SUGGESTS THAT IT'S
GOING TO WORK IN HUMANS, BUT THE
PROOF OF THE PUDDING WILL BE TO
DO IT AND TO SEE, IN FACT, IF IT
DOES.
SO WE'RE RIGHT NOW GEARING UP TO
GO INTO HUMAN STUDIES.
>> Brown: THE SECOND REPORT, A
LOT OF ATTENTION, A SECOND CASE
WITH A BABY BORN WITH HIV GIVEN
AGGRESSIVE TREATMENT RIGHT AWAY
WITH GREAT IMPACT.
TELL US ABOUT THAT.
>> WELL, EVERYONE REMEMBERS THE
STORY AROUND THE MISSISSIPPI
BABY FROM A FEW YEARS AGO WHERE
A BABY CAME IN WITH A MOTHER WHO
WAS INFECTED BUT NOT TREATED
DURING PREGNANCY, AND THE
PEDIATRICIANS IMMEDIATELY
TREATED THE BABY WITHIN 30
HOURS, THEN THE BABY WAS TREATED
FOR MONTHS BUT THE MOTHER
STOPPED THERAPY BECAUSE SHE WAS
LOST TO FOLLOW-UP AND WHEN THE
BABY CAME BACK, THE BABY HAD
BEEN OFF THERAPY FOR MANY MONTHS
AND THERE WAS NO EVIDENCE AT ALL
OF VIRUS, WHICH WOULD INDICATE
THE BABY WAS CURED.
WHAT'S RECENTLY REPORTED NOW IS
A SECOND BABY THAT AGAIN CAME
FROM AN INFECTED MOTHER BUT DID
NOT HAVE ANY ANTI-HIV TREATMENT
DURING PREGNANCY.
THE PEDIATRICIANS TREATED THE
BABY WITHIN THE FIRST FOUR HOURS
OF BIRTH AND, NOW, EIGHT OR NINE
MONTHS LATER, THERE'S NO
INDICATION OF INFECTION IN THE
BABY BY TRYING TO EXAMINE THE
CELLS.
WHAT THE INVESTIGATORS HAVEN'T
DONE IS THEY HAVEN'T
DISCONTINUED THE DRUG YET, SO IT
HASN'T BEEN PROVEN THAT THE
BABY'S CURED, BUT IT'S HIGHLY
SUGGESTIVE THAT YOU NOW HAVE A
SECOND BABY BECAUSE, EVEN THOUGH
THE BABY'S STILL ON THERAPY,
THERE'S NO WAY OF LOOKING FOR
THE VIRUS.
IT'S JUST NOT THERE.
THEY'VE LOOKED IN THE CELLS AND
THEY CAN'T FIND IT.
STRONGLY SUGGESTS THAT THE BABY
IS CURED.
>> Brown: I UNDERSTAND, IN
THIS CASE, THERE'S GOING TO BE A
NEW TRIAL THAT WILL DETERMINE
WHETHER AND HOW TO APPLY THIS TO
ALL BABIES BORN WITH HIV?
>> EXACTLY.
EXACTLY.
IN ORDER TO HAVE A REAL
WIDE-SPREAD UTILIZATION OF THIS
APPROACH, YOU'VE GOT TO PROVE
ITS SAFETY AND THE FACT THAT
IT'S EFFECTIVE IN A LARGE NUMBER
OF BABIES, AND THE TRIAL THAT
WILL START IN APRIL OR THE
BEGINNING OF MAY IS GOING TO DO
JUST THAT, LOOK AT BABIES WHO
WERE BORN OF INFECTED MOTHERS
WHO AREN'T TREATED AND,
IMMEDIATELY WITHIN THE PERIOD OF
48 HOURS, TO TREAT THEM
AGGRESSIVELY WITH ANTI-HIV DRUGS
AND TO SEE IF YOU CAN DUPLICATE
WHAT WE'VE SEEN IN THESE TWO
CHILDREN.
>> Brown: FINALLY, AND I THINK
I'M RIGHT, BUT THIS ONE SOUNDS A
LITTLE FURTHER AWAY
SCIENTIFICALLY, BUT EXPLAIN GENE
EDITING.
THE IDEA IS TO MAKE CELLS
RESISTANT TO THE HIV VIRUS,
RIGHT?
>> EXACTLY.
YOU HAVE SOMEONE WHO'S
HIV-
HIV-INFECTED, ON THERAPY
SUPPRESSING THE VIRUS WELL, AND
THE QUESTION IS CAN YOU GET THE
PERSON OFF THERAPY OR CURE THE
PERSON.
ONE TO HAVE THE WAYS THAT'S BEEN
TRIED IN 12 PATIENTS IS TO TAKE
THE BLOOD OUT OF THE PATIENT,
TAKE THEIR CELLS AND IN THE TEST
TUBE MODIFY IT, GENETICALLY
MANIPULATE IT SO THAT IT CANNOT
BE INFECTED WITH HIV.
GROW IT UP IN LARGE AMOUNTS AND
REINFUSE IT BACK INTO THE PERSON
WITH THE HOPE THAT THOSE
MODIFIED CELLS WILL ULTIMATELY
REPLACE THE NORMAL, UNMODIFIED
CELLS, AND THE BODY WILL BE LEFT
WITH CELLS THAT ARE INCAPABLE OF
BEING INFECTED WITH HIV.
SO THEY'VE SHOWN, NOW, THAT, A,
IT'S SAFE, B, THEY'VE
SUCCESSFULLY MODIFIED THE CELLS
AND INFUSED THEM AND THE CELLS
SEEM TO BE SURVIVING.
WE HAVEN'T GOTTEN TO THE END
GAME OF SHOWING YOU ACTUALLY
CURED THE PERSON, BUT IT'S A
VERY IMPORTANT INCREMENTAL STEP
IN THAT ATTEMPTS TO ULTIMATELY
BE ABLE TO PROTECT PEOPLE FROM
THE VIRUS THAT'S IN THEM SO THAT
YOU DON'T HAVE TO TREAT THEM
WITH ANTI-RETROVIRAL DRUG.
AN IMPORTANT PROOF OF CONCEPT.
>> Brown: AN EXCITING WEEK IN
RESEARCH.
DR. ANTHONY FAUCI.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> GOOD TO BE WITH YOU.
>> Ifill: EVERY MONTH, WE BRING
YOU NEWS OF THE LATEST JOBS
REPORT, GENERALLY INTERPRETED AS
A SIGN OF ECONOMIC HEALTH OR
WOE.
WE'LL TELL YOU ABOUT THE LATEST
ONE TOMORROW, BUT HOW USEFUL ARE
THESE NUMBERS, REALLY? ECONOMICT
PAUL SOLMAN WONDERED THAT TOO.
THE ANSWER IS PART OF PAUL'S
ONGOING REPORTING, "MAKING
SENSE" OF FINANCIAL NEWS.
REAT NEWS.
WE HAVE A NEW
JOBS REPORT THAT
MISSED EXPECTATIONS BY QUITE A
LOT --
>> Reporter: THE MONTHLY JOBS
REPORT, IT'S RELEASED BY THE
BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS THE
FIRST FRIDAY OF EVERY MONTH IS
BIG NEWS.
>> THE MARKET TOOK OFF AFTER A
FAR BETTER APRIL JOBS REPORT
THAN EXPECTED.
>> Reporter: THE REPORT MOVES
FINANCIAL MARKETS, PROMPTS
INSTANT ANALYSIS --
>> IT WAS NOT A GREAT BUT NOT A
TERRIBLE REPORT.
>> Reporter: AND IT'S SPIN
FROM THE RIGHT AND LEFT.
>> THESE JOB THURMS ARE PATHETIC
AND, YOU KNOW, THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE REALLY DESERVE BETTER.
>> WE WELCOME TODAY'S NEWS THAT
OUR BUSINESSES CREATED ANOTHER
121,000 JOBS LAST MONTH AND THE
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE TICKED DOWN.
>> Reporter: THE MUTUAL
NUMBERS SO SOUGHT AFTER, BOS
ECONOMISTS LIKE KAREN ARE
QUARANTINED IN THE DAYS AND
HOURS LEADING UP TO THE FRIDAY
8:30 A.M. RELEASE.
>> WE'RE IN A SECURE LOCATION.
DIFFERENT PARTS TO HAVE THE
OFFICE ARE PHYSICALLY ISOLATED
WHILE PRODUCTION IS INVOLVED.
THE SUITES ARE LOCKED.
THERE'S NO TRASH COLLECTION OR
RECYCLING THAT OCCURS DURING
THAT TIME.
THE ECONOMISTS HAVE TO TAKE OUT
THEIR OWN TRASH AND ACCESS TO
WORK AREAS ARE LIMITED TO PEOPLE
WITH A DEFINITELY NEED TO GET
IN.
>> Reporter: BUT ECONOMIC
ANALYST AND MONEY MANAGER ZACH
RICARABEL HAS A QUESTION, SHOULD
THESE NUMBER MATTER SO MUCH OR
MATTER AT ALL?
>> WE HAVE AN UNDERSTANDABLE
DESIRE TO UNDERSTAND US,
UNDERSTAND THE WORLD.
NUMBERS ARE CONVENIENT PEG TO
HANG OUR UNDERSTANDING.
THE QUESTION WE SHOULD BE ASKING
IS, THESE ARE COMPLICATED
REALITIES WELL SERVED BY SIMPLE,
STATISTICAL NUMBERS?
>> Reporter: IN A NEW BOOK
"BELIEVING INDICATORS," CARABEL
ARGUES WE OVERRELY ON OFFICIAL
DATA, LIKE THE GDB, INFLATION
AND OVERALL JOBS FIGURE.
>> THE UNEMPLOYMENT NUMBER IS A
SYNTHETIC AVERAGE THAT TREATS
THE NATION AS YIEWN TEAR SO IT
ACTS LIKE WE HAVE ONE
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IN CALIFORNIA
AND IT'S THE SAME IN NEBRASKA
AND MASSACHUSETTS, AND IT'S NOT.
NEBRASKA HAS HA HASN'T HAD AN
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE ABOVE 5% IN
THE ENTIRE RECESSION AND
RECOVER.
CENTRAL CALIFORNIA AND PARTS OF
DETROIT HAD EMPLOYMENT RATE IN
THE TEENS.
SO AN UNEMPLOYMENT RATE OF 6.5%
ISN'T GOING TO GET YOU TO THIS
COMPLICATED REALITY.
>> Reporter: SO ONE OBJECTION
IS THAT UNEMPLOYMENT VARIES
BASED ON WHERE YOU ARE AND ALSO
ON YOUR EDUCATION.
AS WE FOUND IN OUR OWN
REPORTING.
THE JOB MARKET LOOKED GREAT FOR
COLLEGE-EDUCATED JOE GILLIS WHOM
WE MET LAST MONTH IN SUBURBAN
D.C. WHO WAS SCHOOLED IN
INFORMATION SECURITY.
>> THE AVAILABILITY OUTHERE T,
I'VE HAD AT LEAST TEN INTERVIEWS
PER DATE.
>> Reporter: BUT EMPLOYERS
WERE BLOWING OFF THOMAS WITH
JUST A HIGH SCHOOL DIPLOMA WHEN
WE TALKED TO HER LAST MONTH IN
INNER CITY BOSTON.
>> WE DON'T HAVE THE EXPERIENCE,
YOU DON'T HAVE A DEGREE, YOU
DON'T HAVE THE TOOLS REQUIRED TO
HAVE THIS JOB.
>> Reporter: AT THE TIME,
ECONOMISTS AN DREW SUM GAVE US
THE STUNNING STATISTICS FOR
THOMAS' MALE COUNTERPARTS.
>> TOOK A YOUNG, BLACK, HIGH
SCHOOL, DROPOUT, LOW-INCOME
MALE, WE'RE TALKING 5%
EMPLOYMENT.
>> Reporter: THAT'S A 95%
JOBLESS RATE.
THE ECONOMIST POINTS OUT THE BOS
PRODUCES LOTS OF DATA.
NOT ONLY IS THAT WHERE AN DREW
SUGOT HIS NURMTS.
>> WE PREPARE A 25 PAGE REPORT
WITH DETAILED ANALYSIS THAT
DOESN'T MAKE IT INTO A HEADLINE.
WE PRODUCE ABOUT 30,000 DATA
SERIES THAT GO ONLINE, DOZENS OF
ONLINE TABLES AND A FEW WEEKS
AFTER THE NATIONAL REPORT COMES
OUT, WE RELEASE A REPORT WITH
STATE AND LOCAL AREA DATA.
>> Reporter: YET THE MONTHLY
NATIONAL EMPLOYMENT NUMBER ALONG
WITH THE TALLY OF JOBS ADDED OR
LOST GETS ALL THE ATTENTION, FOR
BETTER OR WORSE.
BOS ECONOMIST JULIE HATCH MA
MAXFIELD.
>> IT'S A FRUSTRATION FOR US
BECAUSE WE TAKE TIME TO CRAFT
OUR MESSAGE AND SOMETIMES WE ARE
CALLED TO VALIDATE THINGS THAT
EITHER ARE NOT THE TRUTH OR NOT
OUT THERE.
>> Reporter: THE GOVERNMENT,
UNDER PRESIDENT HERBERT HOOVER,
BEGAN COLLECTING NATIONAL
EMPLOYUNMENT DATA DURING THE
GREAT DEPRESSION.
>> THE REASON WE HAVE AN
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IS BECAUSE OF
1929 BECAUSE THERE WAS A CRISIS
THAT WAS CLEARLY UNFOLDING BUT
NO SENSE OF JUST HOW BAD THINGS
WERE, AS HOOVER HIMSELF, KIND OF
AN APOSTLE OF SCIENTIFIC
MANAGEMENT OF GOVERNMENT, SAID,
OKAY, FINE, LET'S FUND THE
BUREAU OF LABOR AND STATISTICS
SUFFICIENTLY TO CREATE A NUMBER
TO GIVE SOME SENSE OF HOW BAD
THINGS ARE.
THE NUMBER WAS QUITE BAD AND
ROOSEVELT USED THE PRELIMINARY
NUMBERS TO DEFEAT HOOVER IN
1932.
>> Reporter: QUITE BAD TURNED
OUT TO BE AN UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
OF 25%, WHICH ONLY DROPPED TO
SINGLE DIGITS WITH THE HUGE
INDUSTRIAL OUTLAYS OF WORLD
WAR II.
YET TODAY, THOSE SURVEYS HAVE
EVOLVED, ESSENTIALLY THE SAME
DATA GUIDE US.
AT OUR PERIL.
>> THEY'RE MEANT TO MEASURE
INDUSTRIAL LABOR FORCES THAT
WORKED IN FACTORIES.
THEY'RE NOT REALLY WELL SUITED
TO A KIND OF 21st CENTURY,
HIGH-SERVICE ECONOMY, FLUID
LABOR FORCE THAT'S MOVING A LOT,
THAT ISN'T WORKING IN LARGE
FACTORIES FOR LARGE COMPANIES,
AND EVEN WITH THOSE NUMBERS,
THEY'RE THE STAMP AT THE TIME
THEY WERE INVENTED.
>> Reporter: BUT ADDRESSING
UNEMPLOYMENT TODAY CARABEL SAYS,
MAY REQUIRE SPENDING IN
PARTICULAR WAYS AND PLACES ON
PEOPLE WITH PARTICULAR
BACKGROUNDS.
THAT MAY HAVE BEEN THE PROBLEM
WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA'S 2009
STIMULUS, FOR EXAMPLE.
>> ONE OF THE PROMISES OF THAT
BILL WAS THAT $800 BILLION OF
SPENDING WOULD TURN INTO
3.5 MILLION JOBS CREATED OR
SAVED.
TO BE FAIR, WE MAY HAVE SAVED
3.5 MILLION JOBS BECAUSE WE'LL
NEVER KNOW HOW MANY JOBS WOULD
HAVE BEEN LOST IF WE HADN'T
SPENT THE MONEY, BUT I THINK ONE
OF THE REASONS THERE WAS A
MISMATCH BETWEEN THAT PROMISE
AND THE OUTCOME IS SIMPLY THAT
THE FORMULAS OF MACRO ECONOMICS
THAT SAYS IF YOU SPEND X,
COMPANIES WILL HIRE Y, THAT'S
CLEARLY BREAKING DOWN.
>> Reporter: SO YOUR OBJECTION
IS TO PEOPLE WHO SAY, HEY, ALL
WE HAVE TO DO IS PUMP UP
AGGREGATE DEMAND, MORE SPENDING
AS OPPOSED TO SPECIFIC DEMAND TO
HIRE PEOPLE CURRENTLY
UNEMPLOYED?
>> EXACTLY.
>> Reporter: IT MAY HAVE BEEN
A TRULY OUTSOURCED SYSTEM WHERE
YOU DIDN'T HAVE OUTSOURCED
ROBOTICS AND ALL OF THE THINGS
WHERE YOU BOOSTED DEMAND,
COMPANIES WOULD HIRE WORKERS.
BUT IF ALL OF THIS IS GOING ON
GLOBALLY AND PART OF IT'S
ROBOTICS, PART IS LABOR, PART
JUST CHANGING INDUSTRIES, THEN
THOSE CORRELATIONS DON'T NEED TO
EXIST.
>> Reporter: IT'S A NEW WORLD,
SAYS CARABEL, AND THE LONGER WE
OBSESS OVER THE MONTHLY
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE --
>> IT'S DEFINITELY BEAKER BUT
NOT A DISASTER.
>> Reporter: THE LONGER IT MAY
TAKE TO HELP PUT MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS BACK TO WORK.
>> Ifill: A CANDID GUIDE FOR
PATIENTS, FRIENDS AND CAREGIVERS
TO COPING WITH CANCER.
JUDY WOODRUFF HAS OUR BOOK
CONVERSATION.
>> Woodruff: GETTING A
DIAGNOSIS OF BREAST CANCER IS
SOMETHING NO WOMAN WANTS TO
HEAR, BUT IN DECEMBER 2010,
MAGGIE, THE EXECUTIVE EDITOR OF
NPR NEWS, BECAME ONE OF THE
250,000 AMERICAN WOMEN WHO,
EVERY YEAR, GET JUST THAT WORD.
HER NEW BOOK "A BREAST CANCER
ALPHABET" IS FULL OF PERSONAL
AND PRACTICAL ADVICE FOR WOMEN
WITH BREAST CANCER AND THEIR
FAMILY AND FRIENDS.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY WOOD WITH
WOOD YOU SAID YOU WERE DIAGNOSED
JUST OVER THREE YEARS AGO.
YOU WENT THROUGH SURGERY,
CHEMOTHERAPY AND NOW LEADING AS
BUSY A LIFE AS YOU EVER DID.
>> I AM.
AND YOU DON'T THINK THAT THAT
CAN HAPPEN WHEN YOU FIRST GET
DIAGNOSED, BUT FOR A LOT OF
WOMEN, THAT DOES HAPPEN.
>> Woodruff: BUT YOUS SAY IN
THE INTRODUCTION, YOU SAY NO ONE
TOLD YOU THAT IT WAS OKAY TO CRY
UNCONTROLLABLY OR OKAY TO BE
ANGRY OR EVEN TO ACKNOWLEDGE OUT
LOUD THAT IT'S A REAL BUMMER.
YOU SAID, I'M GOING TO QUOTE
HERE, THAT WOMEN WITH BREAST
CANCER ARE EXPECTED TO BE UPBEAT
BUT "HARD AND MARTIAL" IN THEIR
ATTITUDE.
>> THERE IS SOMETHING IN BREAST
CANCER THAT FOCUSES ON THAT.
THE IMPLICATION IS IF YOU
STRUGGLE, AND UNFORTUNATELY
DON'T MAKE IT THROUGH, THAT
SOMEHOW YOU DIDN'T GIVE IT YOUR
ALL AND IT'S YOUR FAULT AND I
DON'T SUBSCRIBE TO THAT.
IT'S A HORRIBLE DISEASE WITH
REALLY HORRIBLE TREATMENT AND
IT'S OKAY TO SAY THAT.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S PART
OF THE REASON YOU WROTE THE
BOOK.
WITH ALL THE LITERATURE OUT
THERE ABOUT BREAST CANCER, YOU
THOUGHT THERE WAS A MEANING FOR
THIS?
>> I STARTED BRINGING THIS FOR
MYSELF.
IT WAS SORT OF CATHARTIC FOR ME
TO WRITE HOW I FELT.
AND I TALKED TO OTHER PEOPLE AND
FRIENDS WHO HAD GONE THROUGH
BREAST CANCER AND WE FELT THE
SAME ABOUT A LOT OF THINGS AND
THERE WAS CAMARADERIE IN BEING
ABLE TO SHARE THAT.
IT'S NOT A MEDICAL BOOK, I'M NOT
A DOCTOR, IT'S ABOUT MY REAL
EXPERIENCE THAT MANY PEOPLE I'VE
SPOKEN TO HAVE FELT.
>> Woodruff: IT'S LITERALLY A
TO Z.
YOU START WITH ANXIETY WHICH
TURNS OUT IS A REALLY BIG PART
OF THIS.
>> IT IS, AND IT STARTS BEFORE
YOU'RE DIAGNOSED.
IT STARTS WHEN YOU GET THE CALL
OR LETTER THAT SAYS COME BACK,
LET'S LOOK AT YOUR MAMMOGRAM
AGAIN, OR OTHER EFFORTS BEFORE
YOU GET THERE.
ANXIETY IS DIFFERENT FROM FEAR.
IT JUST LIVES WITH YOU ALL THE
TIME AND SOMETIMES IT'S AT THE
FOREFRONT AND SOMETIMES IT'S AT
THE BACK AND YOU HAVE TO
CALIBRATE IT AND SORT OF FIGURE
OUT HOW YOU DEAL WITH IT AT
DIFFERENT TERMS IN YOUR
TREATMENT.
>> Woodruff: B IS FOR BREAST.
YOU SAY ALL OF A SUDDEN, YOU
FIND YOURSELF IN MATTER OF FACT
CONVERSATION WITH YOUR BROTHER,
COLLEAGUE, A NEIGHBOR ABOUT PART
OF YOUR BODY YOU WOULD HAVE
NEVER DISCUSSED WITH THEM
BEFORE.
>> YEAH, IT'S THE FUNNY THING
ABOUT BREAST CANCER, EVEN THOUGH
IN OUR SOCIETY BREASTS NOT
TALKED ABOUT, BUT HERE YOU HAVE
A DISEASE THAT'S ALL ABOUT YOUR
BREAST AND PEOPLE KNOW WHAT IS
GOING TO HAPPEN TO YOU.
IF YOU ARE GOING TO HAVE
SURGERY, THEY KNOW YOU ARE GOING
TO GO THROUGH SOMETHING
DISFIGURING WITH REGARD TO YOUR
BREASTS.
NOT SOMETHING I TALKED A LOT
ABOUT.
>> Woodruff: THERE IS SO MUCH
I WANT TO TALK TO YOU BUT ABOUT
YOU REALLY ARE BRUTALLY OPEN.
I IS FOR INDI INDIGNANTIES, ABOT
WHAT YOU HAVE TO GO THROUGH.
>> THERE'S A LOT OF WOMEN WHO
DON'T HAVE BREAST CANCER AT
LEAST HAVE GONE THROUGH A
MAMMOGRAM.
THAT'S NOT PLEASANT.
POKING, PRODDING, AND WHEN YOU
HAVE SURGERY, YOU ARE DISFIGURED
IN A PAINFUL WAY, IT ALL HURTS
AND MAKES YOU FEEL ANGRY AND
UPSET AND IT'S OKAY TO FEEL THAT
WAY.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE RIGHT
ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE OF THE
PEOPLE AROUND YOU AND WHAT THEY
CAN DO WITH YOU, FOR YOU AND HOW
THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE.
>> I WROTE K IS FOR KINDNESS
BECAUSE KINDNESS ABOUNDS AND I
THINK THE MOST IMPORTANT THING
TO DO IS, WHEN PEOPLE ASK YOU
WHAT CAN I DO TO HELP, STOP AND
THINK, NOT TOO LONG AND NOT TOO
HARD, FIGURE OUT WHAT YOU NEED
AND ASK THEM TO DO IT FOR YOU.
>> Woodruff: G FOR GUILT.
I GUESS I WAS SURPRISED AT THAT
ONE.
>> THERE ARE MULTI-FACETS TO
GUILT.
THE DEPRESSING THING IS TO THINK
I DID THIS, I DID SOMETHING
WRONG THAT CAUSED MY BREAST
CANCER.
MOST OF THE TIME YOU DIDN'T.
YOU HAVE TO WORK YOUR WAY
THROUGH THAT.
SO I WAS SURPRISED THAT CHAPTER
HAS ACTUALLY A LOT OF PEOPLE
HAVE REALLY REACTED STRONGLY TO
THAT CHAPTER.
>> Woodruff: BUT THERE IS ALSO
A LOT OF HUMOR IN HERE.
THERE ARE GREAT STORIES ABOUT
PEOPLE WHO TALKED ABOUT WHAT IT
MEANT FOR YOUR HAIR, LOOKS,
MAKEUP, ALL THE THINGS THAT ARE
JUST A VERY PRACTICAL PART.
>> AND THEY ARE A PART OF BREAST
CANCER IN A WAY THAT THEY AREN'T
FOR OTHER CANCERS.
I HAVE HAD FRIENDS WHO HAVE GONE
THROUGH CANCER AND, YOU KNOW,
WHETHER WE LIKE IT OR NOT, HAIR,
MAKEUP, LOOKS, ALL THOSE THINGS
ARE FOR WOMEN.
>> Woodruff: YOU SAY EVEN YOUR
DOCTORS ARE THANKING YOU.
>> YES, MY DOCTORS ARE AMAZING
AND MADE THEM THINK ABOUT A FEW
THINGS THAT THEY HADN'T THOUGHT
ABOUT.
I HOPE IT CONTINUES TO DO THAT.
>> Woodruff: MADHULIKA SIKKA,
SETTING A GOOD EXAMPLES.
>> THANKS.
>> Ifill: A NEW STUDY RANKS
ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE AS THE THIRD
LEADING CAUSE OF DEATH IN THE
U.S. WE'LL BE BACK SHORTLY WITH
MORE ON THAT SURPRISING
CONCLUSION.
BUT FIRST, THIS IS
>> Ifill: WE'VE REPORTED OFTEN
ON HOW THE NUMBER OF AMERICANS
COPING WITH ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE
WILL GROW IN COMING YEARS.
NOW, A NEW STUDY FINDS
ALZHEIMER'S MAY ALREADY ACCOUNT
FOR MANY MORE DEATHS THAN
REALIZED.
HARI SREENIVASAN, REPORTING FROM
OUR NEW YORK STUDIO, GETS THE
DETAILS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE C.D.C RANKS
ALZHEIMER'S AS THE SIXTH-LEADING
KILLER IN THE U.S., ACCOUNTING
FOR NEARLY 85,000 DEATHS A YEAR.
BUT THE STUDY IN THE JOURNAL
NEUROLOGY PUTS THE ANNUAL DEATH
TOLL AROUND HALF A MILLION,
MAKING IT THE THIRD-LEADING
CAUSE OF DEATH, JUST BEHIND
HEART DISEASE AND CANCER AND
AHEAD OF CHRONIC LUNG DISEASE
AND STROKES.
DOCTOR BRYAN JAMES, AN
EPIDEMIOLOGIST WITH RUSH
UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER IN
CHICAGO, LED THE RESEARCH.
YOU SAY HALF A MILLION.
THAT'S A BIG GAP.
>> IT IS A BIG GAP.
IT'S ABOUT SIX TIMES THE NUMBERS
AND THE REASON FOR THIS, IT'S
VERY WELL DOCUMENTED THAT
ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE IS
UNDERREPORTED ON DEATH
CERTIFICATES.
WHEN PEOPLE ARE FILLING OUT
DEATH CERTIFICATES, THEY USUAL
FOCUS ON THE MORE IMMEDIATE
CAUSES OF DEATH, AND THEY HAVE
THE OPPORTUNITY TO WRITE THE
UNDERLYING CAUSES, BUT
ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE IS USUALLY
LEFT OFF.
>> Sreenivasan: SO WHEN YOU
LOOK AT THE RESEARCH HERE, HOW
DID YOU FIND THIS DISCREPANCY?
>> RIGHT.
SO RATHER THAN LOOK AT WHAT'S
WRITTEN ON PEOPLE'S DEATH
CERTIFICATES, KNOWING THAT IT'S
LEFT OFF SO OFTEN, WE ACTUALLY
FOLLOWED, YOU KNOW, 2500 OLDER
ADULTS OVER TIME AND SAW WHO
DEVELOPED ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE
AND SAW THE RISK OF DEATH IN THE
PEOPLE WHO DEVELOPED ALZHEIMER'S
COMPARED TO THOSE WHO DIDN'T AND
THAT'S HOW WE DEVELOPED AN
ESTIMATE OF THE EXCESS DEATHS WE
CAN ATTRIBUTE TO ALZHEIMER'S AND
THEN EXTRAPOLATING IT TO ALL
DEATHS IN THE UNITED STATES AND
CAME UP WITH THIS NUMBER OF HALF
A MILLION DEATHS DUE TO
ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE.
>> Sreenivasan: SO GIVE ME AN
EXAMPLE OF HOW ALZHEIMER'S IS
THE UNDERLYING CAUSE OF DEATH,
IF A HEART ATTACK IS WHAT'S
LISTED ON THE DEATH CERTIFICATE.
>> YEAH, I THINK MANY PEOPLE
DON'T REALIZE ALZHEIMER'S IS A
FATAL DISEASE.
IT LEADS TO DEATH VERY SLOWLY
OVER MANY YEARS.
IT STARTS IN THE PART OF YOUR
BRAIN THAT CONTROLS YOUR MEMORY
AND YOUR THINKING, AND WE'RE ALL
PRETTY MUCH AWARE OF THAT.
WHAT PEOPLE DON'T KNOW IS OVER
TIME IT SLOWLY SPREADS TO THE
PARTS OF YOUR BRAIN THAT CONTROL
YOUR MORE BASIC FUNCTIONS LIKE
SWALLOWING AND BREATHING AND
YOUR HEART RATE AND THIS CAN
LEADLE FATAL CONDITIONS SUCH AS
PNEUMONIA AND HEART FAILURE.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW
SIGNIFICANT IS THIS FINDING?
IS THIS CHANGING THE WAY WE'RE
THINKING ABOUT THE BURDEN OF THE
DISEASE?
>> I THINK THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
WE ALREADY KNOW THAT 5 MILLION
PEOPLE ARE LIVING WITH THIS
DISEASE IN THE COUNTRY AND THIS
NUMBER IS GOING UP AND UP AND
UP.
WE'RE PAYING OVER $200 BILLION A
YEAR TO CARE FOR PEOPLE WITH
ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE AND THIS IS
A STATISTIC TO WAKE PEOPLE UP
AND TO OPEN THEIR EYES THAT THE
BURDEN ON SOCIETY IS A LOT MORE
THAN WE'RE GIVING IT CREDIT FOR
AND PERHAPS WE NEED MORE FUNDING
TOWARD RESEARCH AND TREATMENT IN
THIS AREA.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THERE A
DIFFERENCE IN HOW THE GOVERNMENT
SAY SUPPORTS FUNDING OF
ALZHEIMER'S VERSUS CANCER?
>> THERE IS A DISCREPANCY IN
FUNDING.
I WOULD NEVER SAY CANCER SHOULD
BE FUNDED ANY LESS THAN IT IS,
BUT CANCER IS FUNDED IN ABOUT
TEN TIMES THE RATE AS
ALZHEIMER'S AND THAT'S INCLUDING
THE $100 MILLION THAT THE
CURRENT ADMINISTRATION JUST GAVE
TO ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE, WHICH IS
FANTASTIC, BUT IT'S JUST A FIRST
STEP, AND THERE ARE THREE TIMES
AS MANY PEOPLE WITH CANCER AS
ALZHEIMER'S.
>> Sreenivasan: SO IS THIS THE
TYPE OF INFORMATION THAT CHANGES
POLICY?
>> WELL, WE CERTAINLY HOPE IT
IS.
YOU KNOW, WE KNOW THAT DISEASES
THAT KILL PEOPLE GET A LOT OF
ATTENTION, AS THEY SHOULD.
WE WANT TO BRING DOWN THE AMOUNT
OF SUFFERING THAT PEOPLE HAVE
WHILE THEY'RE LIVING WITH THIS
DISEASE, BUT ALSO WE WANT PEOPLE
TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THIS WILL
ALSO LEAD TO PEOPLE PASSING
AWAY.
>> Sreenivasan: I'M ALSO
THINKING, BEYOND ALZHEIMER'S,
DOES THIS CALL INTO QUESTION
OTHER DISEASES THAT DEATH
CERTIFICATES MAY BE
UNDERREPORTING?
>> YOU KNOW, MOST TO HAVE THE
OTHER MAJOR KILLERS WE THINK
THAT THE DEATH CERTIFICATES ARE
PRETTY ACCURATE.
IF YOU DIE OF CANCER IN THIS
COUNTRY, FOR EXAMPLE, IT'S
PRETTY ACCURATELY GOING TO BE
MARKED ON YOUR DEATH
CERTIFICATE.
IT'S JUST THAT ALZHEIMER'S TAKES
SO LONG, THERE'S SUCH A LONG
CHAIN OF EVENTS, A LONG CASCADE
THAT CAN TAKE UP TO A DECADE OR
MORE FOR SOME PEOPLE, THAT IT'S
SO OFTEN LEFT OFF THE DEATH
CERTIFICATE.
>> Sreenivasan: SO WHAT ARE
THE SORT OF NEXT STEPS GOING
FORWARD?
>> WELL, THE NEXT STEPS GOING
FORWARD ARE WE NEED OTHER
RESEARCH, LARGE COHORTS OF OLDER
FINDINGS, SUPPORT THEM.
BUT POLICYWISE, WE THINK THIS
HOPEFULLY CAN OPEN THE EYES OF
LAWMAKERS AND POLICYMAKERS AND
PRIVATE AND PUBLIC FUNDERS AND
JUST THE PUBLIC IN GENERAL THAT
THIS IS, YOU KNOW, A VERY
BURDENSOME DISEASE ON OUR
SOCIETY.
>> Sreenivasan: ALREADY,
DR. BRYAN JAMES FROM RUSH
UNIVERSITY.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS
SO MUCH HIS THE
TWO LEADERS SPOKE BY PHONE FOR
ABOUT AN HOUR THIS AFTERNOON.
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID THERE'S
STILL ROOM FOR A DIPLOMATIC
SOLUTION THAT INCLUDES DIRECT
TALKS BETWEEN UKRAINE AND
RUSSIA.
ON THE "NewsHour" ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, MEET THE MICROSCOPICPHYTEO
PLANKTON THAT HELPS PRODUCE
OXYGEN IN OUR ATMOSPHERE.
THEY HAVE BEEN AROUND 3 1/2
BILLION YEARS AND ARE THE REASON
WE BREATHE TODAY, BUT SCIENTISTS
ARE STILL UNLOCKING THEIR
SECRET.
YOU CAN FIND ALL THAT AND MORE
ON OUR WEB SITE
pbs.org/NewsHour.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, WE'LL HAVE AN
EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW WITH GENERAL
MARTIN DEMPSEY, CHAIRMAN OF THE
JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF ON THE
CRISIS IN UKRAINE AND SEXUAL
ASSAULTS IN THE MILITARY.
I'M GWEN IFILL, WE'LL SEE YOU
ONLINE AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW
EVENING WITH MARK SHIELDS AND
MICHAEL GERSON.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.